1. Caching resources allows the app to work offline by avoiding network requests. Now the app can respond with a 200 status code when offline!
2. MySQL The binary data type: The binary data types is used for storing strings of full bytes that do not have an associated character set. For example, you might use the BINARY data type to store a GIF image. 
3. MySQL The BLOB Data Type: The term BLON stands for Bianry Large object amd therefore, as you would think the BLOB data type is most useful for binary data in excess of 65536 bytes in size. The main other differenc between the BLOB and Binary data types is that the BLOB cannot have default values.
4. MySQL The most memory that a numeric field can use is eight bytes you are well advised to choose the smalles data type that will adpequately handle the largest values you expect. This will help keep you databases small and quickly accessible.
5. MySQL The datetime and timestamp data types display the same way. The main difference is that timestamp has a very narrow range( the year 1970 through 2037) whereas DATE TIME will hold just about any date you're likely to specify, unless you're interested in ancient history or science fiction.
6. The way to achieve fast searches is to add an index, either when creating a table or at any time afterwards. But the decision is not so simple.
7. If MySQL finds two indexes with the same contents, it will have to waste time going to the table itself and checking the column that was indexed to find out which rows really matched
8. NATURAL JOIN: Using Natural Join, you can save some typing and makee queries a little clearer. This kind of join takes two tables and automaticlally joins columns that have the same name.
9. The MySQL functions work on the data right there in the database. If you were to use PHP, you would have to extract the raw data from MySQL maupulate it and then perform the desired database query.
10. The main goal of normalisation is make sure that each piece of information appears in the databasse only once. Duplication of data is very inefficient because it makes databses larger than they need to be and thus slows down access.
11. Normalisation requires spreading data across multiple tables, and this means making multiple calls to MySQL for each query .
12. Multiple updates can be computerized, though. MySQL provides a feature called triggers that make automatic changes to the database in response to changes you make. (Triggers are, however, beyond the scope of this book.) Another way to propagate redundant data is to set up a PHP program to run regularly and keep all copies in sync.
13. In some applications, it is viatally important that a sequence of queries runs in the corrrect order and that every single query successfully completes. For example, suppose that you are creating a sequence of queries to transfer funds from oine bank acoount to another. So it is vital to note that the order of queries is important in this type of transaction. but it is vital that all parts pf the transaction complete successfully.
14. MongoDB provides two types to data models i.e. 1. Embedded Data Model and 2. Normalized Data Model 
15. Aggregations operations process data records and return computed results. Aggregation operations group values from multiple documents together, and can perform a variety of operations on the grouped data to return a single result.
16. In UNIX command, shell pipeline means the possibility to execute an operation on some input and use the output as the input for the next command and so on. 
17. MongoDB also supports the same concept in aggregation framework. There is a set of possible stages and each of those is taken as a set of documents as an input and produces a resulting set of documents (or the final resulting JSON document at the end of the pipeline). 
18. MySQL -A JOIN clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them.
19. MongoDB -Replication is the process of synchronizing data across multiple servers. 